planner: add functional dependency doc (#33875)
pingcap/tidb: docs/design/2022-03-16-functional-dependency.md

Application:

For the only-full-group-by check of building phase, after getting the FD as illustrated in the last subchapter, we can easily identify from the select list that t1.a is equivalent to the group-by column t2.a, count(t2.b) is strictly functional dependent on group-by column t2.a and t.c is definitely constant after the filter is passed. So it can pass only-full-group-by check here. For more sophisticated cases with recursive sub-queries, maintenance work of this kind of FD architecture will be automatical and reasonable because we're just pulling the request from the top node of the entire logical plan tree, and all things happen naturally.

#### How to integrate functional dependency with TiDB arch

> Where to put this stuff in and when should the FD collection work be done? In FD logic, the relationship between columns is not limited to base col, but also between expressions, even sub-queries. We need to be able to identify sameness between cols, expressions and even better to have a unique id to tag them. When joining different tables, there are maybe some columns with the same name from difference source, we should still utilize this unified unique id to identify and distinguish them. Obviously, the expression tree after ast rewrite has this convenient functionality, and plus we need to utilize FD functionality to check validation when building a logical plan, so eventually we can only perform FD collection while building the logical plan stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where to put this stuff in and when should the FD collection work be done? In FD logic, the relationship between columns is not limited to base col, but also between expressions, even sub-queries. We need to be able to identify sameness between cols, expressions and even better to have a unique id to tag them. When joining different tables, there are maybe some columns with the same name from different sources, we should still utilize this unified unique id to identify and distinguish them. Obviously, the expression tree after ast rewrite has this convenient functionality, and plus we need to utilize FD functionality to check validation when building a logical plan, so eventually we can only perform FD collection while building the logical plan stage.
```

For outer join, we need to consider more, because outer join will choose the connection method based on the position of the join conditions and the presence of the join key.

* only inner side condition           --- apply inner filter after the cartesian product is made, which means no supplied-null row will be appended on the inner side.
* has outer condition or join key     --- apply all of this filter as matching judgement on the process of cartesian product, which means supplied-null row will be appended on the inner side when matching is failed.

> both cases will keep all rows from the outer side, but the time to apply the filter depends on where the conditions come from, which leading whether append the null rows on the inner side. So what's the big deal between this two? the former one can be seen as a inner join, but the later can only keep the FD from the outer side join, inner side's FD and filter FD has many complicated rules to infer with, we are not going to expand all of this here.

Reviewer: This paragraph is not very easy to understand.

Author: make sense, I have rewritten.

> Although both cases will keep all rows from the outer side, but how to derive FDs from both side depends on where the conditions come from, what the columns used by the conditions are, and what the attributes the conditions can provide. We can treat the former one as an inner join, but for the later one, we can only keep the FD from the outer table of join, and inner side's FD and filter FD has many complicated rules to infer with, we are not going to expand all of this here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although both cases will keep all rows from the outer side, but how to derive FDs from both sides depends on where the conditions come from, what the columns used by the conditions are, and what the attributes the conditions can provide. We can treat the former one as an inner join, but for the latter one, we can only keep the FD from the outer table of join, and inner side's FD and filter FD has many complicated rules to infer with, we are not going to expand all of this here.
```
